---
{
    "title": "My Backstory in Software",
    "date": "2025-04-02T02:58:57Z"
}
---

It's been a wild ride. Since my school didn't quite offer Computer Science classes specifically (ICT/IT, Technology & Design) as subjects by in the early 2010's. I somehow found myself so interested in gaming, I delved into editing save games in HEX (given clear direction via YouTube!) at the solid age of 10 or 11. I felt such a magical intrigue about being able to edit the save game as simple as that was back then, to do something the developer didn't intend. In comparison to some of my US counterparts of the era (2006-2014), before I got to actually study CS at University, I sort of had to find that intrigue myself. Games were that initial entrypoint for me to even think about studying software for a career. In those early stages, I was all about being a game developer, but I didn't quite grasp exacty what that was, for example, I was an avid Artist at the time, I really enjoyed drawing, painting and creating designs that were visually appealing. I knew this was _part_ of game development, but I also knew there was some, weird, coded languages that people "typed" into a computer and it would "do things" - really, I was that clueless.

Once I finally arrived at University, I quickly became overencumbered with the weight and vastness of what software engineering, and computer science were as subject matter. There was so many minute complexities for my brain to store and map out, to make relations between these things in a logical way. So, I checked out. I flunked the most of my college degree and got an underwhelming result, something I had to bear the brunt, and reality of in the subsequent years as I desperately applied for graduate roles.

Initially, my spirit wained as I find it increasingly difficult to find something where I could be a software engineer, and learn on the job as graduate. I worked in various call centres, wasting away what I'd worked pretty hard for in school, and (sometimes) in University, to do. I wanted so desperately to right the wrong of not paying enough intention in lectures, coursework and exams that I kept at it. Thankfully, I was given my first role in an Embedded Systems company through none other than my older brother. I started out here as a web developer, not quite fitting into the status quo of punching hard, cold C code into ThinkPad laptops at lightning speed, with electronic equipment on their desks, wires crossing over their keyboards. I learned basic JavaScript, and knew buzzwords like "React" and "Saas" (the rage at the time). I never thought overly deeply into the lower levels of software, as I was always relegated to work in the confines of a browser, writing code that only runs there. In a vacuum, away for the machine and it's OS. I liked creating user interfaces, and understanding how we could use code, and JavaScript's fundamentals to do that, I picked up Vue 2, before their Composition API that rivalled React's "Hooks" at the time, conceptually. It was a fun experience, but I tended to lack understanding in more complex and involved discussions around this practice, of frontend engineering. Eventually, things started to "click" a bit more as I went, state management, styling and CSS frameworks like Less and Saas, accessing external API's, and a very basic understanding of how frontend projects are constructed architecturally.
